[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[music]
>> Hello, OddLobots listeners. I'm Joe
Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, we were down at South by
Southwest recently.
>> Yeah, that's right. I didn't get to have
any barbecue in Austin, but we did have
some really good Mexican food. We did
have really good Mexican food and we
recorded a really fun episode of our
podcast.
>> That's right. More importantly, we
recorded a good episode.
>> That's right. So, check it out
listeners. We did a live episode of the
podcast talking about sort of the
prospect of mass white collar
displacement due to AI as well as the
politics and how politicians should be
thinking about this and how voters are
thinking about this. Our guests were
David Shore, founder of Blue Rose
Research, and Burn Hobart, who writes
the excellent DIFF newsletter and a
general partner at Anomaly Fund. Take a
listen.
>> Thanks everyone for coming out on a cold
Sunday morning.
>> Yeah. Hello, and welcome to a live
recording of the OddLots podcast. This
is definitely going to be the most
uplifting of all the conversations that
have happened this weekend, right?
>> I think so. I think it really will be.
We are
>> Everyone here is going to leave feeling
really good about [laughter]
>> about the future.
>> All right. Well, let's kick it off. So,
we have uh two great guests. We are
going to be speaking with David Shore.
He is the founder of Blue Rose Research
political consultancy pollster knows a
lot about AI and we have Burn Hobart,
the founder of the DIFF, a great
newsletter that everyone should read and
a general partner at Anomaly Funds. And
we're going to talk about all things AI
and job loss potential and the politics
of it and so forth. And so, David and uh
Burn, thank you so much for uh joining
us on stage here.
>> Great to be here. Yeah, thank you.
>> So, let's just start um on this
question. David, you're pretty like this
is happening now. The economy is going
to look radically different maybe even a
year, 18 months from now and you're
trying to wake politicians up. This is
happening right now. But like tell us
what's happening right now or what's
about to happen.
>> Yeah, you know, I'm not an AI expert and
I don't I don't want to claim I'm one,
but you know what I'll say is that I use
AI a lot. I use cloud code a lot. I
think in December I spent maybe like 15%
of my pre-tax income on cloud code
overage fees. [laughter] And I think
there's a real disconnect among my
friends between, you know, people who
use cla code and people who don't where
I could really feel the extent to which
I can do so much more now versus a month
ago and a month before that. Like the
scale at which these things are getting
better and the speed at which things are
getting better is really jarring. And I
think you might not notice that if
you're just using chat GBT like you know
chat GBT is like a little better than it
was a year ago.
>> But again it's very hard to make
predictions about the future but I do
think that if if things continue to
improve on this scale then things could
get really weird really quickly.
>> And Burn one of the reasons we wanted to
talk to you is because you're sort of at
the intersection of technology and
finance. If I look at the valuations of
big tech at the moment and a bunch of
the AI companies, they basically suggest
that they're going to take over the
entire economy. When you see those
numbers, what do they suggest to you
about the future of labor?
>> So, I think right now it's definitely
true that we're think you can think of
this coherent category of this is an AI
company or this is a non this was a
non-AI company, but they're
incorporating AI and they have these
distribution advantages, so they'll
probably do well at that. But I think
that it's a mistake to think that this
is a a durable discreet category in the
same way that you could refer to a lot
of companies as electricity companies.
And if it were 1925 and you're trying to
figure out which stocks to buy and
you're just really really bullish on
electricity, then you you would really
really care that RCA is exposed to
electricity and I don't know, US Steel
is mostly not. But eventually every
company becomes an electricity company
just in the sense of you would run a
very different business if the lights
did not turn on. And so it like gets
subsumed by the rest of the economy. And
you see that with software too where
there just a lot more companies that
have software developers and are writing
software for internal use. And they're
not software companies per se. You know,
they're restaurants or like tractor
companies or whatever, but they have
that element. And so I think that's
that's part of what you see just early
in the roll out of any general purpose
technology is that you have a lot of
really narrow specific bets and then
over time the impact gets so widely
distributed that it's very hard to trace
and you have to kind of go back and look
at the history and look at things like
okay the rise of the car leads to the
rise of the suburb but it also leads to
the rise of the grocery store because or
like the the supermarket where you can
have a much larger selection and that
means lower labor cost per unit sold and
that means lower cost overall and that
works if people are not walking to get
their groceries. It doesn't work if
people are walking and it's like a
daily, you know, stop on the way home
from work or something. So, we will
probably see a lot of those weird kinds
of outcomes. Like, I think if you're
thinking about the risk to a given
career, I think for most of the careers
people worry about, the average like the
mean compensation goes up, the median
compensation of people who are in that
industry right now, the median
compensation they get from being in that
industry probably goes down where a lot
of people get washed out. But this has
happened before. Like the spreadsheet
did not eliminate investment banker or
accountant as a job. It actually made it
a more lucrative job. But it also made
it a more measurable one where you just
can't slack off the way that you perhaps
used to be able to somewhat slack off in
some of the white collar professions.
It's just a lot easier. Like the
expectation for output is so high.
>> I'm on Twitter all day and a lot of
people are tweeting and I'm like it
seems like a lot of people are slacking
off these days. I'm like how do you have
time? I have time because I'm like a
journalist and I sit, you know, I create
words professionally.
>> Some would argue that you do not in fact
have time to be tweeting all day.
>> That's true. But
>> but David, so okay, there's been a lot
of progress. No question. There are new
harnesses for AI models that increase
all of our capabilities and so forth.
That's different than we all know that's
true. That's different than like job
wipeout in a significant way. What is it
about to you that you think yes there is
progress but progress on the scale of
this is an imminent thing that we have
to be talking about that could really
reshape white collar labor
>> the analogy that I think about a lot is
co uh because the thing about AI
progress is just that it's really in
many ways exponential where the amount
of time that an AI uh can operate
autonomously without a human really has
been doubling every 112 12 days or so
for the past 6 years. And you know, when
I think about CO, this was a thing that
nobody saw coming. Uh, and then it
happened really fast. And then I think
the political system was very reactive.
And I think that a lot of quietly, a lot
of Democrats wish that they had handled
things a little bit differently. But
what's cool is that unlike co, you know,
we really can see this coming. All of
the warning signs are blinking. And you
know the other point I want to make here
is you know I personally think that
there's a lot of potential for
large-scale job loss particularly white
collar but you know there are a lot of
truck drivers there are a lot of Uber
drivers um you know all kinds of people
could lose their jobs and this could all
happen very quickly. I think the more
important point though is that the
American people see this and are really
quite worried. You know, when you ask
people, uh, how likely do you think it
is that in the next 5 years there might
be large scale job loss because of AI?
70% of the population says that it's
either very likely or somewhat likely.
And so I that's really the main point
I'd make there is the reason politically
why politicians should act now rather
than waiting until there's a problem is
you know one the American people are
already worried about this and and two
once it's already happening it will be
too late for our political system to
respond and so I think it's important to
try to get ahead of
>> definitely want to get more into the
politics but Bern you brought up
something that like seems to be kind of
standard in these conversations which is
we've been here before right We all well
not literally went through the
industrial revolution but that's
something that happened and we went
through the internet boom and the
economy and society adapted more or less
but when you ask people now what the
alternative professions are for white
collar workers we haven't been able to
really get like a slate of possibilities
I know it's hard to imagine the future
but you know if you're an insurance
broker and you have been for 20 years
what are you going to be doing in the
new economy like what are the new jobs
that are coming down the line.
>> Yeah, that is actually a tough question.
Like one of them is just like
temporarily I think there are a lot of
jobs that are basically either human
who's required to be in the loop for
regulatory reasons like doctors are
incredibly rapid adopters of AI tools
and the supply of doctors is sort of
artificially constrained and so if you
decrease the percentage of their time
that they spend on admin tasks and you
decrease the rate of mistakes that they
make you basically get the equivalent of
manufacturing more doctors and in cases
like healthcare there is effectively
unlimited demand. like there's yet to be
an economy where people don't spend more
of their marginal dollar on health.
>> So, we're all going to be healthare
workers.
>> I think that's actually like that sector
probably will grow and you know that's
it's kind of glum to say okay some some
white collar workers are going to kind
of move downscale in terms of status
where they will probably have jobs that
sound less cool. But if overall output
is high enough and if the returns on
capital are high enough that people like
the economy starts shifting more
incremental production into just
building data centers that does mean
that if you are the complement to a data
center like you you are a necessary
component of this entire supply chain
your bargaining power is a lot stronger
because there's just a lot more capital
that you're adjacent to. If you are
completely substitutable by the data
centers then you're in a tough spot.
We we always find that models have these
really spiky abilities. Like they're
they're superhuman in some respects and
in other respects they are, you know, in
terms of things like math ability. Like
they they're beyond the point where I
could reliably distinguish between two
models and say, "Well, this one's really
good at math and this okay at math."
>> But in other domains, they do just kind
of fall flat because they they don't
have this comprehensive world model. And
the reason for that is that they're
trained on text and text actually skews
towards areas that are uncertain and
open to debate. So I I use the term the
maybe sphere which is like if you
imagine there's like this bedrock of
facts that are so obvious that nobody
ever bothers to write them down. And
then there's this infinite space of
questions that are so weird that it's
almost certain they don't have an
answer. There's like this little narrow
layer like an atmosphere where it's
worth asking a question and you might
get an answer. So they have a really
good world model for the parts of the
world that we're either not sure about
or that we've codified in textbooks and
then a really bad world model for a lot
of the obvious stuff. And so it would be
kind of weird to be like to say like my
job right now is to say extremely
obvious things to this superhuman
intelligence. I don't even know what
what job title historically that might
correspond to like sort of a servant for
you know a brilliant person who's also
like a you know absent-minded professor.
But yeah I think we'll we'll have a lot
more manservant for absent-minded
professor professions in the future. Man
servant for absent-minded professor. It
sounds fine.
[music]
David, you have a firm and you hire
people. Has the nature of your hiring
changed? Are you hiring for different
types of roles than you would have a few
years ago or something like that given
the change in technology?
>> Absolutely. You know, uh I I think just
to give a simple example like we used to
have lots of copy editors to write
polling questions or to write messages
and you know the reality is that now AIs
are generally better than people at
doing that. Not uniformly but we have a
lot.
>> Are they good at writing polling? Like
can AI you want to find interesting
polling questions right not the obvious
stuff is AI good at finding nonobvious
polling questions that are
non-correlated to things so that you can
actually get signal from them
>> well you know I I don't want to talk too
specifically about that but I I will say
that there's just tons of copy editing
tasks that I think frankly
>> why do you want to talk specifically
about that means this is the question I
should be asking
>> no no no but you know look there's a lot
of stuff like translation there's a lot
of stuff like copy editing I think the
big shift for us is that we're focusing
a lot more on personentric jobs and you
know now you can do a lot more
engineering than before. So I think
there's definitely been a big job shift
you know in terms of how we've been
hiring. Absolutely.
>> Maybe we can do a little bit of content
creation naval gazing here since I
imagine this is probably of interest to
a lot of people at South by Southwest as
well. But Bern you write a newsletter on
a daily basis. Joe and I do as well. How
are you using AI just in your sort of
day-to-day?
>> So, I use it a ton for research and one
of the specific use cases is asking a
questions like, does this joke land or
hey, I'm making a statement, you know, a
kind of narrow technical statement about
a domain that I'm reasonably familiar
with, but I'm not an expert on. You are
an expert on this. Tell me what I'm
getting wrong. And one of the reasons
for that is just a lot of my readers are
software engineers and are
>> eager to tell you when you're wrong.
>> Yes. Extremely eager. Like I I sort of
measure people's ability as as software
engineers in particular based on how
quickly I get an email from them that
there's a typo because the really good
ones like one of the skills that they
have is just looking at a lot of text
and immediately seeing what's wrong. Now
that skill is kind of obsolete right
now. LM are better at it, but still the
mindset of I'm going to look at this and
kind of absorb something coherent and
I'm going to look for any little issue
with it. That's still quite valuable. In
fact, since there's more code being
produced than ever before by a huge
margin, it's really really valuable to
be able to read it fluently and
understand what it's supposed to be
doing. So, um I do I use AI a lot for
research. I have only in the last few
months have I actually gotten ideas for
things to write specifically from chat
GPT or only in the last few months have
it has it made some original points I
would not have thought of that were just
[clears throat] like clever insights and
not just it's reciting a fact that I did
not happen to know. David, talk to us a
little bit more. So, this question of
progress, right? We all know it's
getting better. That's obvious, but the
more interesting question is, is it
getting better at a pace faster than
what people had previously anticipated?
And talk to us about like, okay, where
we are now with the technology and where
the people that you were talking to, and
maybe I'll throw this to both of you,
where would they have said we would be
in is it March? March 2025.
>> Yeah. I I I think that the big surprise
of the last year has been, you know, the
rise of vibe coding, the rise of tools
like cloud code. If you just went back a
year ago, I think that nobody really
expected the extent to which these
things would be able to do large scale
complex autonomous coding problems. You
know, I think in a lot of ways these
models have become useful faster than
they've become smarter. And I don't
think that that's something that people
expected pro. Well, you know what's
interesting is that every year there are
a bunch of AI experts who then go and
make predictions. Uh, and one of the
biggest surprises has been the revenue
growth of these companies, which I think
is in many ways the most important
benchmark. Uh, I think Anthropic's
revenue last year was something like 2x
what experts who already I think were
quite AID predicted. Uh, and so I think
that's probably the biggest surprise.
And you know what I would say just on
the broader transition is uh questions
is just that tools like LLMs have been
now adopted faster. You know there are a
bunch of graphs that are like how long
did it take to implement radio or
electricity or the internet. And this is
much faster than any of those things.
And so, you know, I I I really worry
like when we talk about past transitions
of like telephone switch operators or
factory workers, you know, all of these
things happened over an extended period
of time and only impacted certain
sectors of the economy. And this
technology really threatens to upend
every single job at the same time. You
know, at a point when, you know,
people's overall views of the economy
are not good. And so I really worry just
politically the extent to which our
political system can handle this.
>> It is true that just it like when you
look at these measures of how broadly
technology is adopted. I think the thing
that's really hard to measure is at what
point does it become just part of your
baseline expectation and what at what
point are the impacts so obvious that
they're unspoken. So if you look at
electrification like I think anyone who
talks about AI is just required to say
that it took like half a century to go
from the first electrified factory to
most US factories being electrified. But
it's it and the reason for that and
there's a lot of fun economic history on
this is that you have to run your
factory in a different way. You actually
have to build a different kind of
building and you also have to finance it
a different kind of way or you can
finance it a different kind of way. So
if you have a factory that has some kind
of mechanical power source, you tend to
expand your business in these discrete
factory-sized increments. And what that
means is that your investors, you pay
out most of your earnings as dividends
because there's nothing to do with
retained earnings. It's like if you're
going to grow, you want to issue a bunch
of stock, you want to issue a bunch of
bonds and then grow in like one shot.
But once you have electrified factories
where they can expand, they can just add
another assembly line or they can
upgrade this machine to a newer machine,
etc., they can actually expand more
organically and incrementally. And so
that's when you start to see dividend
payout ratios come down and that's when
you start to see the growth company as a
concept emerge. Like if you read
investor accounts from the 1920s and
they're talking about the stock market,
one of the weird things is they're
they're very fixated on whether the
stock is above or below $100 a share
because that was the par value that was
just like the standard value for the
stock and it was supposed to be the book
value etc. then people kind of viewed
equity as just the most junior claimant
like the way you view equity the equity
slice of a co or something like that and
now we view equities completely
differently and so we deploy money
completely differently like it would be
incomprehensible to an investor circa
1926 to say I'm going to invest in this
company that has no operations it's just
people and I'm going to you know put the
actual money into this business but most
of it will be owned by these people and
then the business you know my stock
could be worth 50 times as much in a few
years if things go perfectly like that
wouldn't make any sense to them. The
idea of a stock going from par value to
50 times par value is just insane. So we
but that that change actually was part
of I think it was like causal and in
both directions with America just having
a really flexible financial system. We
also have a really flexible labor market
relative to every other country which
means we will be patient zero for like
all the job loss stuff like it'll hit us
before it hits anyone else and it'll hit
us harder than anyone else. On the other
hand, one of the unique things about
this particular general purpose
technology roll out is that it is
happening much much faster than before.
But in the thing that slightly offsets
that is that the specific technology
actually gives you access to information
and cognition such that you can ask chat
GPT like here is my job like I've been
selling insurance for 20 years. How
should I reskill? Like what should I do?
And it will ask follow-up questions.
It'll ask, okay, well, you know, what do
what other problems do the companies and
people you work with have? Or, you know,
let's break down the skills that you
have. What makes you a particularly good
or bad insurance person? And then what
are the other jobs that might be less AI
exposed that you could do? Or, you know,
as the models get smarter, you could
just tell it, hey, I want you to invent
a new job for me, like a bespoke job I
was born for.
>> No, you already have that job.
>> That's right.
>> Podcasters are safe. I guess we can ask
questions. But I mean it does seem kind
of dystopian when the upside is well you
can ask the chat GPT what your
alternative job is and
>> but this stuff this stuff always feels
dystopian at the time like if you told
someone 200 years ago hey it's going to
be completely non-viable for you to
inherit your father's farm and work on
that farm and then give that farm to
your son like and if you said you know
not only is that economically nonviable
but you're also not going to be so
fixated on is it your son or your
daughter and also you're probably going
to move to a city you'll be surrounded
by complete strangers you'll have a job
like in this loud, noisy, very
uncomfortable building like messing
around with, you know, whatever these
physical things you're manufacturing
are. Like a lot of people would say
that's that's kind of nightmarish. And
in fact, a lot of contemporary observers
did talk about that being kind of
nightmarish, but it did end up working
out reasonably well over time. It was
just new and weird and completely
incomprehensible from the original
standpoint.
>> Let me ask the question in a slightly
different way, which is like who
captures the productivity gains here and
how are they distributed? cuz I can
imagine a situation where we all have
jobs. There are certain tasks in our job
that we don't necessarily like doing and
if we can use AI to do them more
efficiently, then maybe that's great for
us. But history is full of examples of
new technology that is pitched as, you
know, a productivity enhancer like email
is going to let you do things faster and
then it turns out that actually email
means we have to reply to emails 24
hours a day and we just get more volume
and it actually makes us more miserable.
Who captures the efficiency gains here?
>> People who don't feel miserable when
they can produce more economic output
but have to pay different kinds of
attention or put in more effort. No,
like it is true that these things have
negative side effects, but like when the
when the cost of communication goes
down, the amount of coordination you can
do goes way up and you can coordinate in
different kinds of in different ways.
And I think this this also illustrates
that it's very hard to predict the
demand for service sector work because a
lot of it is so meta like a lot of this
interacting with other parts of the
service sector. So like Excel is kind of
the tright example, but there's also
word processing where you could think,
okay, word processing makes it easier
for lawyers to just quickly draft
contracts and so we'll need fewer
lawyers. But actually it meant they
could turn a two-page contract into a
50-page contract and then you need more
lawyers to handle that. Joe, did I tell
you I met someone in Connecticut who was
training to be a copy editor? He started
two years ago and I just thought, my
god, what bad timing.
>> I've heard a few other stories like I
heard someone recently they like went to
like a coding boot camp like six months
ago and I'm like that's awkward timing.
>> David, in your polling, who likes AI the
most and who likes AI the least?
>> Yeah, there's a pretty clear coalition.
You know, the actual levels depend a lot
on how you ask it, but the main
demographic split is that young people
like AI a lot more than older people
than men more than women, which is
probably unsurprising. And then I think
interestingly, generally, educated
people have much more positive views,
they they ironically, despite all the
talk of the white collar job loss, it's
it's the people with degrees, who I
think are the most optimistic, and then
working-class people are a lot less
optimistic. And then finally, after all
of that, generally speaking, not white
people are more pessimistic about AI,
and black and Latino voters are are
generally more optimistic. Uh, you know,
the Mississippi Delta, for example,
actually has the highest rate of folks
who are uh excited about AI.
>> That's interesting. Wait, explain the
difference in attitudes between the
educated and more like working class. Is
that just because the working class is,
I guess, maybe historically more used to
getting screwed over, for lack of a
better word? Well, I think that is
exactly it that you know the way it
would all just he painted the story of
well, you know, the jobs are going to
change, but there's going to be tons of
growth. There's going to be new jobs.
And I think it's just really worth
saying that voters are extremely
skeptical of this claim. Like if you go
and you say, "Oh, how much do you trust
the statement that AI is going to create
lots of new jobs?" I think it's
something like minus 40. The reality is
that, you know, voters are extremely
negative about the economy right now.
It's really impossible to overstate
where something like twothirds of the uh
public thinks the economy is rigged.
Only 35% of the public think feels that
they're financially secure. And uh in
that context where people are genuinely
quite angry, they are extremely
skeptical of the claim that things are
just going to be okay. Uh and obviously
you know working class people remember
the decline in manufacturing. They like
basically every economic big economic
shift has had winners and losers and the
winners generally have been either the
top one or the top 10%. The economists
argue about that but other people have
lost. And so you know the main point I
want to make is just I think the picture
that Brin is uh painting isn't going to
be allowed to happen because the public
has a say. This is a really important
point. The the public will sort of it's
almost impossible to talk about the
future without knowing what the politics
are going to be. Let me ask you, so you
work with Democrats and when I think
about the Democrats and AI, I think
there's like a few different things.
There's a pretty big contingent on the
sort of capital L left that thinks it's
all a fraud, that thinks it's like this
is therronos again, this is NFTTS, this
is completely economic sustainable. Then
there's sort of like the anti-data
center people. They don't want them in
the backyard. They don't want them
around period. Then there's sort of like
what's been building in the Democratic
party for a while. Just the sort of like
anti- big tech and the sort of the
anti-olarchs stuff like that. like is
there anyone that you talk to who's most
um I'm trying to think of the exact term
taking it very seriously as an important
technology that is going to evolve like
is there anyone you talk to who's like
no this actually works this is real this
could be a productivity gains etc or is
it almost just various flavors of
political negativity
>> well I think the backdrop is that this
is a very new political issue you know
Even since last year, the share of
voters who care about AI has increased
more than any of the other 39 issues
that we're tracking. And so politicians
obviously are catching up. Usually
politicians are pretty reactive. Um, but
you know what I will say is I think that
Democrats are in a much better position
to capitalize on this than Republicans
are just for the basic reason that
Republicans have really painted
themselves in a corner on this. You
know, Donald Trump is on tape saying
that AI is going to create tons of new
jobs, that job loss isn't going to
happen. JD Vance gave the speech where
he was like, "Oh, we will never regulate
AI." And so I I think, you know, just
from my conversations, I'm seeing
Democratic politicians care a lot more
about this than they did 6 months ago.
And I think that folks are kind of
amling about to figure out what the
right way to respond is. Wait, say more
about why you think AI has become a
concern so quickly because I, you know,
everyone in this room has probably
played around with chat GPT and things
like that, but I would imagine for a big
chunk of the population, it hasn't
necessarily impacted their day-to-day
lives just yet. So, it's kind of
surprising to see AI concerns rise the
ranks of worries so fast.
>> Well, I do think people see the writing
on the wall. you know that basically as
it stands something like 60% of the
public has used these tools 13% of the
public uses them every day and I think
that people really underestimate the
extent to which the public is concerned
or the I I think these tools really are
being rolled out quite widely across a
whole host of different sectors. You
know, I was talking this weekend to, you
know, a medical tech who was like, "Oh,
yeah, no, the AI is being deployed."
Like, you know, she was in a rural
hospital in Montana, and even them, she
was like, "Oh, yeah, no, AI is being
deployed quite widely." And I think that
again, this is happening in the context
of voters feeling extremely negatively
about the economy. And so, whenever they
see the prospect of a large-scale
revolution and how all of their jobs are
going to happen, I think that they're
very concerned they're going to be
screwed. Burn, you're you're plugged
into the opposite side of the aisle, I
believe. Yes. And on there, there's some
interesting cleavages as well because
obviously we have the sort of the tech
right that's very enthusiastic, the
progress and acceleration and so forth.
And then you have the sort of obvious
like populist coalition. You have like
politicians talk about how awful it
would be if you know we ever had
self-driving trucks and how terrible
that would be for uh drivers. What do
you how do you see the uh tectonic
plates moving around on the other side?
>> Well, I like AI, so I'm I'm very
pessimistic on the political dimension.
And I think part of it is that when you
ask people about AI, when you're making
it salient, they have one set of views.
But if you look at their behavior, they
have a different set of views. And I
think this is like a broader point about
the large scale deployments of
technologies is that they do increase
measured income and wealth inequality,
but they decrease consumption
inequality. So [snorts] things like
flying on a plane is just a much more
attainable affordable thing. There were
some recent stats on how Door Dash usage
is heaviest among lower income people.
And so you you just have access to a lot
of things where it used to be that
either nobody had it or only very
wealthy people had it. And actually,
CHTBT, it is the kind of thing where if
it didn't exist and I were much much
wealthier, I would just hire people to
do that kind of thing. I would just ask
them weird questions about history or
just send them off on little research
tasks and I wouldn't feel at all bad if
they get back to me, you know, a week
later and present me with this report
and I say, "Oh, I actually changed my
mind. I don't care about that anymore.
Just but here's the next one." But like
you can you can do that with an LLM. But
also, older demographics nominally don't
like AI, but they spend a lot of time on
Facebook, which means they actually do
really like AI. They like AI
recommendation engines. They are very
tolerant of AI recommended ads. They
love AI generated images and AI
generated text. They feel much more
comfortable on a site where an AI is
actually going to tell them what the
comment should say and they don't have
to come up with a comment. Like people
actually love AI from a consumption
perspective and hate it from like the
outside abstract perspective. So the the
thing that makes me more optimistic is
just the salience of these different
issues fluctuates over time. Maybe AI
deployment is so fast that becomes just
part of the background noise like the
internal combustion engine or
electricity or even the internet where
like the internet is not a campaign
issue right now. It was sort of an issue
in 2000 and it's been I guess you know
there were internety issues in 2016 and
2020 but it's it's becoming less and
less salient. We just don't think about
like are you pro or anti like it just
is. And I think that with a lot of these
invisible productivity gains from AI or,
you know, less salient productivity
gains from AI, we're in a better world
where people are not thinking AI is and
is only the homework cheating and
plagiarism like deniable plagiarism
machine plus the thing that's taking
away my best potential [music] job.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Do either of you have a favorite
historical analogy for AI right now in
terms of understanding it from a
political or social perspective?
>> You know, for me, as I said before, I
think it's co where I think that this is
going to hit very quickly. People get
obsessed about, you know, exactly when
it will happen or exactly how it will
happen. But I think voters hate change.
I think that that's one of the most
underrated status quo bias of politics
is very strong. If you look at who are
the most popular politicians in the
country, it's always, you know, the
governors who do absolutely nothing, you
know,
>> [laughter]
>> um, uh, underrated political fact. So I
think if you're talking about a world
where every single job is being
simultaneously transformed and there are
tons of winners or losers like you know
obviously people get hung up on this
question of will everyone lose their job
because of AI but if like 3% of people
lose their job because of AI it's just
going to be the biggest issue in the
world you know whenever you have diffuse
benefits and concentrated losers that's
just like a public choice recipe for
chaos and so I really like the co
analogy because co happened basically
all at once and then our political
system was scrambled and new coalitions
were created and it was very difficult
to respond and I whenever you go back as
we talked about before it's really hard
to think of an economic transition that
happened that quickly
>> burn
>> yeah I think I think the co analogy
might be revealing in another way which
is like the coalition's completely
shifted multiple times it was like in
January it's only the weird online
extremely online right-wing anonymous
people and then a handful of rationalist
people who say this is a really big deal
and it's like we need to shut down air
travel from China and like the for the
EA types for the rationalist types that
was more like this is a prudent response
to a potential existential threat and
then I think for a lot of people on on
the far right it was like this is a way
to make China look bad and also to have
fewer flights to and from China and
therefore we want to do it. Um,
[laughter] and then, you know, Trump, I
think, was very just tied to what the
S&P was telling him about whether this
was a good thing or a bad thing. Like,
you could kind of see it like I I think
if he'd had a live ticker telling him
how the market was reacting to some of
his early COVID speeches, we would have
had a completely different co policy as
a country. And then we kind of did this
flip where now then the the right became
the more co libertarian, you know, just
let it rip. You know, we're all going to
be immune to this at some point faction,
which was really weird to me because the
right skew is older and older people
were more at risk.
>> But I I guess it goes back to salience
and information environment. And if you
are if you're in the cohort where you're
you're sedentary, you're elderly and you
are sedentary because you're spending a
lot of time watching TV. If what you're
watching on TV is Fox, then maybe you
just get a very different view of the
world. So I think the coalitions
probably fluctuate a lot. I don't think
there's actually any I don't think
either major party is a good home for
the progrowth abundance faction like
they can be a minority among Democrats
or minority among Republicans and will
have to sell out in some ways to have
any kind of influence whatsoever. So in
that sense again pretty pessimistic but
when you were talking about the the
issues that changed in salience I think
in the the data you had it was like a
year ago it was trade and everyone was
obsessed with trade and then trade
became a huge thing and was like the
main producer of headlines for a while
and then it kind of faded. So and even
though like the situation is still very
messed up in terms of global trade. In
fact it is it is more messed up than it
was a few weeks ago in terms of oil
trade. That's right. So, in that sense,
trade is like the the day-to-day like
are you better off than you were a week
ago question, trade is still the most
salient issue. I mean, maybe if there's
a new new model release that'll change
things, but uh for now that's the case.
So, yeah, it's it's all pretty volatile.
I I in terms of the the technology that
I think maps most closely to this, I
think the transistor and integrated
circuits are probably probably the
closest mapping like one in the literal
sense of they are a way to make
everything in your life a little bit
smarter. And it is just astonishing to
think of how many little idiot savant
devices we have in our homes that can do
little calculations and computations and
have a nice little interface and how
that stuff got so cheap that it
basically became free. Like it would not
make sense to think about can we build a
microwave that has entirely mechanical
controls with no transistors inside of
it. Like why would you do that? Speaking
of politics, like David, do you think
it's plausible? Let's say the president
were for it, a future president were for
it, someone puts up a bill and says,
"We're gonna ban AI, new AI data center
construction." Could you see a world
where that actually passes? Cuz I feel
like that's like that seems crazy, but
also I more I think about it,
>> it almost seems like it could pass.
>> Yeah, I could see all kinds of things
passing. Uh we're going to we'll
probably have divided government and so
it's always good to bet against any
specific thing happening in that
situation. But like we just you know
there it's very popular for example to
ban investors from owning homes for
example which is both parties seem to be
like very into that idea that
corporations shouldn't own large swaths
of single family homes totally seems to
cut across both parties. The anti-data
center thing strikes me as similar where
it does not seem like a right or left
thing. It seems like a very broad
populist tick- tock politics sort of
thing.
>> Yeah. You know what I'll say about the
polling on data centers is it's true
that if you poll, you know, do you want
a data center in your neighborhood?
People say no. But the flip side is if
you add literally anything to it. If
you're like, what if it's built by clean
energy or what if it lowered your tax
bills by 10%. Then suddenly it becomes
really popular. I've seen a lot of
politicians like kind of grab for the
data center thing because this is just
like a big scary issue and the data
center stuff is just like a really
legible.
land use and that I think it would be a
mistake. Not because I care that much
personally whether we ban data centers
or not, but really just because I think
the public really wants something else.
Like if we ban data centers tomorrow,
that really doesn't change the fact that
voters think that the economy is rigged
or that they're very scared about the
future. And you know, in our testing,
you know, we've generally tested uh
dozens of different ways to talk about
AI. And you know, the data center stuff
I think just doesn't move the public
very much. Uh while what does uh I think
is actually just being a lot more
radical talking about job guarantees or
income guarantees uh or eviction
protections. Like I think that there's
just an enormous amount of fear and uh
the political system should try to
address it and it's not just should I
think it will you know because we do
live in a democracy
>> actually burn that reminds me one of the
things we hear a lot when it comes to AI
is this idea of electricity as a
limiting factor right everyone talks
about how that's the big constraint when
you yourself think about adoption of the
technology and its spread across America
and I guess around the world how much
are you actually thinking about things
like data centers and electricity
consumption.
>> Well, I'm thinking less about those
right now just because everyone who is
in that supply chain has all of their
capacity booked out so far in the future
and like new supply is pretty inelastic.
Like I wouldn't be entirely surprised to
see the AI companies just guaranteeing
that they will take delivery on, you
know, something from Seamus Energy or G
um in, you know, the year 2032 or
whatever just so that they break ground
on new manufacturing capacity. But I
kind of view that because it's such a
long lag thing, it's kind of a given. I
think that the actual constraints are
more on the um internal like
organization side just you know do you
even have an org chart if you have AI
everywhere that's always routing
messages to whoever needs them. Like
could you just have there's one person
who's the CEO and everyone else is an
individual contributor and you AIify all
middle management? Probably not because
what you act the other limiting factor
is just liability that you do want a
human in the loop. You know, I was
joking about this earlier, but it is
true like the person who's in an ideal
position right now is someone who is in
a regulated job where there is some kind
of trade association that limits new
entrance into that job, but there's
excess demand for the services they
provide and AI can increase their output
per hour. Like these people will be
minting money and um they will continue
to do so as long as they can limit
supply inflows. And so what we might end
up with is a more kind of guildified
economy where we have limits on who
specifically not who can do the job but
who can actually you know stamp it and
say I'm taking credit for this and you
can sue me if it goes wrong because
that's actually a really valuable thing
and it's still like you can't really sue
a data center. You you know you can try
to sue open AI but they can probably
afford better lawyers than you. You
actually it's probably more economically
efficient to sue me for something chatpt
told me to do that I didn't double check
by asking Claude. And so we'll like it
is weird to think that one of our
economic purposes as as you know living
in sold human beings is to be an easy
target for a lawsuit but it is actually
something economically valuable that we
can do and because we all have different
risk preferences and risk tolerances for
things. It actually means that we would
get this sort of uneven deployment of AI
where there would be people who just
demonstrate that you can go way too far
and that you know if you decide that
you're going to be the CPA who does
taxes for you know does a thousand 1040s
a day you're probably the first CPA to
go to prison specifically for something
that an LLM told you to do if that
hasn't happened yet. But I think that
that that kind of model where you want a
human in the loop because so many
structures that we have economically and
socially just assume there's a person
that will probably stick around.
>> You write a lot about finance as well as
technology and I've been thinking a lot
about the future of finance in AI. One
of the things that comes up is we did a
really good episode with the uh CEO of
PNC Bank. We were talking a little bit
about AI and lending and he said um you
know if you deny a loan to someone you
have to have a reason for it. There are
various laws that you know
anti-discrimination laws and stuff. So
if someone is denied credit you have to
be able to explain why. One of the
things with AI is that it can make very
good decisions but it's hard to
interpret and the AI often can't explain
how it arrived at a conclusion. And I'm
curious like from a fi just thinking
about the finance industry, how much do
you think that's going to be a limiting
constraint on the degree to which AI
disrupts the industry? The fact that a
lot of things need to be articulable in
English basically. Well, I think AI like
humans is bad at knowing why it actually
did things and really really good at
explaining why whatever it did was the
right thing to do. So it probably I mean
I'm not the head of PNC so I don't know
for sure but I I would imagine it
actually makes it easier to just come up
with some very solid sounding
rationalization for anything like
they're they're just really good at
rationalizing. So I would be less
concerned with that. Like I actually
think it's nice to have more open
accessible kind of reasoning like you
can actually read the reasoning traces.
And one of the effects I think it has on
finance is that people who are coming up
with recommendations like make this
loan, don't make that loan. It will make
a lot of sense to have much more
detailed records of their entire thought
process. So you might have them, you
know, working in data bricks notebooks
or something equivalent to that
specifically. So you could see, okay,
first they asked this question and then
they went down this rabbit hole, then
they decided it's irrelevant and then
they went to this question and then they
spent some time on it, etc. Because you
if you have just here's the question and
here's the polished answer someone came
up with and edited, you're missing a lot
of the intermediate layers and so it's
hard to train a model that can trace
through that and reproduce it. Now, if
you have a smart enough model, it's
basically implicitly reproducing all of
that reasoning on its own. But that
means that it does worse when the
reasoning is really really clever and
the person didn't show their work. And a
lot of clever people just figure things
out and then they're already bored with
the problem. So they don't want to tell
you how they did it and they move on to
the next thing.
>> I did have like a home DIY project
recently and I was asking Chad GPT how
to do it and it basically told me to
defy gravity
>> and could not explain why it had to
arrive to do that. I'll tell you more
about it later because it's a long
story. Anyway, if we could do a little
bit of like political polling, naval
gazing for a second, David, when I think
about AI and some of what you do, I
think it could be very helpful to you
because you can identify even more
granular issues for the population. You
can come up with like even better
polling questions, but then I think that
everyone's going to have access to
basically the same technology. And so
the worst case outcome is probably going
to come to fruition, which is we're just
going to get more identity and sort of
cultural grievance politics. How do you
see that going? Like does political
campaigning get smarter with AI or do we
just kind of descend more into culture
politics?
>> Well, obviously it's very hard to make
predictions about the future, which I
guess I've said already today, but it's
easy to imagine really bad things
happening. deep fakes, the inability to
track what's true and what's not. You
know, the ability now of lots of people
to make content that's persuasive, that
argues for things that previously
weren't within the domain. But, you
know, I do think in this discussion,
people kind of underestimate how
dysfunctional the status quo is where if
you look at social media, for example,
something like 5% of the public is
responsible for a majority of social
media content. Uh, which is crazy. uh
you know and I I think that right now
because content is expensive to produce
you know if you are a influencer or a
writer about politics your economic
incentives are really to focus on the 5%
of the public that is consuming way way
more political content than everyone
else and really basically no one in the
political spectrum right now is making
content focused on regular people who
don't care that much about politics. You
know, just to give an example, someone I
know had a a panel of Tik Tok users
where he, you know, recorded their
phones and it was like 200 people and he
was paying them to do that and he could
see who was watching what. And after
Charlie Kirk got shot, there was one
person who was responsible for a
majority of the Charlie Kirk videos.
Just that day, he was like really
swiping and watching hundreds of Charlie
Kirk assassination videos. And you know,
if you are a content producer, that is
currently your incentive. And so my
point is really the status quo is really
quite bad. And I think that if you look
at who these people are, um they tend to
be quite anxious. They they tend to be
quite neurotic. Like right now the
attention game really pushes you toward
being more negative while the persuasion
game of like how do you actually get
someone to change their mind really
pushes you in the opposite direction.
You know, every time I've done a poll,
every time I've done a test, it's
generally said you should be more
positive. You should focus more on
regular things that affect people's
lives. And you know the reason why that
doesn't happen are the incentives of the
actual content creators. And so I could
see you know lowering the costs of
producing content uh and kind of
broadening out who is a able to make
content. It could be good but also uh
you know to be clear there's a lot of
ways it could be bad. Um we're just
entering I think a totally different
world where it's hard to predict
anything. It is weird how much like
politics, discourse, and ideas truly
seem disconnected from anything that
affects people, many people on a
day-to-day life. I mean, this has been
brought up before. Why has no politician
really made a big issue about like
getting rid of like spam texts or
something like we all find it incredibly
annoying and yet you wouldn't it's
almost unimaginable.
>> I'm sure you could find some oneisssue
voters on spam text,
>> right? But like that would be great if
someone actually like let's take this
seriously as a thing that annoys
everybody and let's try to make a push.
And yet it doesn't happen, does it?
>> Yeah. The stat I really like on this is
if you ask people what issue do you care
about the most, it's cost of living by
an enormous margin. Um but the flip side
is that if you look at the 0.7% of the
population that has donated to a
Democratic campaign in the last year,
then cost of living goes from number one
to like number five and like climate
change is on top. And so I think, you
know, if you look at like I think the
status quo is that politicians right
now, if you look at what they talk
about, it's much more explained by what
their donors care about than uh you
know, what the public cares about. Um
and that's really pretty pretty bad. I
think a lot an enormous source of our
political dysfunction right now is
really that people on both sides aren't
listening enough to what regular people
care about. Do either of you have a good
read on the policies you would expect to
be actually politically viable if we do
start to get I'm not going to say an AI
doom case scenario because I know you
disagree on that but a painful AI
adjustment process.
>> I think that the public is much more
radical on this issue than people think.
Me personally, I'm not usually the
person who goes out and says, "Ah, the
people crave radical policy change." But
we really are in a very radical time
right now. If you ask voters, you know,
do you support price controls, uh, the
answer is yes by 2:1, which is not
something that was true 5 years ago. You
know, when we've done tests, you know,
we had one test where we had a really
quite radical thing where we're like,
oh, we're going to guarantee your income
up to $150,000. We're going to make sure
that you have a job. We're going to make
sure that you uh won't be evicted. and
it tested better than like 98% of the
clips that were made that were made by
Democratic professionals. That specific
policy, which I think is quite radical,
I think is something like plus 30 and
plus 15 among Trump voters. And so
that's that's just the thing I want to
say is, you know, right now everyone has
this discussion about timelines and and
policy specifics. And you know, the
public is in a much more radical place
than politicians or commentators are. So
that's I think the big thing I'd say is
I think it's the most underpriced issue.
Um the very best testing topic better
than populism, better than AI is AI
populism. And I think I think that's the
direction things are going to go.
>> Burn this is this is ominous. I I did
want to return to um two of the points
that you you had made on on deep fakes
and on how everyone in media is writing
for the tiny minority of people who
really care about pol or everyone in
political media is writing for this tiny
minority that cares about politics. And
one I I actually I do think deep fakes
are a net positive development in the
specific sense that
>> this is great. We could do a whole hour
on this question.
>> I've I've been writing about this one
for a long time. My view is that it is
always possible to create manipulative
cuts of some media. It's always possible
to say, okay, there have been, you know,
50 videos recorded in the last day of
some egregious happening. Here's the one
we're choosing to make a new story.
That's always been possible with
sufficient resources. and now it's
possible for everyone. And so to the
extent that when you choose what
narrative if you're in a position to
choose what narrative is promoted, it's
I think of it as kind of the modern um
it's like it is the deacto electoral
college is that people opt into viewing
certain kinds of media that will then
shape their views to make them more more
correlated with that kind of medium. And
so what we're kind of doing is
democratizing democracy. We're saying
anyone can make a misleading video. Like
you don't have to watch 20 hours of
footage of this person talking to find
the one gaff. you can just fake it. And
the fake is actually like for the fake
to be a plausible, you know, opinion
shifting fake. It has to be something
fairly similar to reality. It can't just
be like Donald Trump is actually an
alien. It has to be something like, you
know, Donald Trump took a bribe in cash
from a Qatari businessman or something
like that. But then if you can only make
fakes that are actually kind of
plausible, then they just exist in this
space that is not that far from reality.
And similarly the big viral videos they
are often a sample from reality like
they are a sample from reality but they
are something where you can magnify the
perceived frequency of an event if
there's just wall to-all coverage of
that event on video. So that that was
one point was I I do think that it
actually just makes us a less a culture
that is less likely to make up our minds
on important issues by watching a you
know grainy shaky 12 seconds of footage
of something. I think that's good. I
think we should read more and watch
less. But I also think that when the you
know the other piece of AI just the the
targeting recommendation algorithms
which there's a huge chunk of AI
spending and AI's impact that probably
does mean that it's potentially more
likely that someone could make a career
out of something like agitating against
spam tax. And we did actually see you
know click to cancel is kind of moving
along. So you know those little quality
of life things like click to cancel is
the kind of thing a mayor would be
really proud of but it has to be done at
more of a federal level. But maybe if
it's possible to actually target
whatever population niche like really
wants to bring back pay toilets because
they think that banning paid toilets
creates all kinds of perverse economic
outcomes which it does. You can find
those people, you can mobilize them and
you can get them to, you know, if there
is like some very close race somewhere
in the House race for example and one of
the politicians happens to support this
particular pet issue, they could be like
the crypto people and just money bomb
the person who happens to also support
the thing that they like. So we could
actually have that's another way we
could potentially see AI democratizing
democracy further is that you can
actually coordinate interest groups for
people who are just less politics but
still actually care about problems that
should be solved through the political
process.
>> Yeah. I just wanted to jump in quickly
you know because uh you know you said
that Bren said that this is ominous and
you know I I want to push back on that a
little bit. There's an Ed Glazer quote
that I really like which is you know
everyone wants macroeconomics to have
micro foundations but micro foundations
itself should be microfounded that we
are not going to experience any of the
potential productivity gains or or only
experience a fraction of the
productivity gains unless we can give
voters some sense of security. that
public is really crying out that they
want economic security and that they
want to be able to look out at the next
5 years without fear. And if you can
provide a new social contract, if you
can actually provide economic security
at a high level, then you can actually
have all of these like sector specific
shifts to have higher productivity. But
if politicians don't advance a vision
like that, then we're just going to
collapse into a Byzantine series of
sector specific, you know, regulations
and guilds, which I think you don't want
either. And so I think, you know, the
libertarians should really choose, you
know, uh what world they want. you know,
either we can have a largecale solution
that protects people's incomes and
prevents them from being losers, or we
can just kind of have this giant
negative some fight playing out in every
single sector simultaneously. And I'll
also say, you know, we're not really in
the ideal political circumstances, you
know, for that latter thing to to
happen. And so, I think it really could
get quite ugly.
>> David and Burn, thank you so much. That
was a fascinating chat. We really are
going to have to do another hour on what
deep fakes are doing. But, uh, thank you
all for joining and, uh, have a great
rest of your day.
[music]
That was our conversation with David
Shore and Burn Hobart recorded live at
South by Southwest in Austin. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Burn Hobart. He's at Burn Hobart and
David Shore at David Shore. Follow our
producers Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen
Arman Dash Bennett at Dashbot and
Kalebrooks at Kalebrooks. And for more
OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
[music] And if you enjoy Odd Thoughts,
if you like it when we record these live
episodes, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. [music] And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can
listen to all of our episodes [music]
absolutely adree. All you need to do is
find the Bloomberg channel on Apple
Podcast and follow the instructions
there. Thanks for listening.
Yeah.
>> [music]